
2. In SIC/XE 
Addition (A) 
Instruction format : A ADD #value 
where A is the accumulator, and value is the immediate value 
Example: A ADD #100 
adds the value 100 to the accumulator 
 
Subtraction (S) 
Instruction format : S SUB #value 
where A is the accumulator, and value is the immediate value 
Example: S SUB #100 
subtracts the value 100 from the accumulator 
 
Multiplication (M) 
Instruction format : M MUL #value 
where A is the accumulator, and value is the immediate value 
Example: M MUL #100 
multiplies the value 100 to the accumulator 
 
Division (D) 
Instruction format : D DIV #value 
where A is the accumulator, and value is the immediate value 
Example: D DIV #100 
divides the accumulator by the value 10018

S5-SS Notes, Prepared by Gayathri Dili, Asst.Prof., CSE Dept., SNGIST

2. In SIC/XE
constant

For More Study Materials: https://www.keralanotes.com/1. INPUT OPERATIONS 
(i) INPUT Statement 
The INPUT statement is used to read data from the terminal and store it in a variable. The general format of the INPUT statement is: 

INPUT variable-list 

where variable-list is a list of variables separated by commas. 

For example, the following statement reads the values of the variables A, B, and C from the terminal and stores them in the corresponding variables: 

INPUT A, B, C 

(ii) FORMAT STATEMENT 
The FORMAT statement is used to specify the format of the data to be read. The general format of the FORMAT statement is: 

FORMAT (format-specification) 

where format-specification is a list of format characters. The format characters specify the type of data to be read and the number of digits to be read. 

For example, the following FORMAT statement specifies that the data to be read is in the form of three integers separated by spaces: 

FORMAT (3I5) 

(iii) EXECUTION 
When the INPUT statement is executed, the computer reads the data from the terminal and stores it in the variables specified in the variable-list. The data is read until a carriage return is entered. 

For example, the following program reads three integers from the terminal and prints their sum: 

START 
A, B, C 
INPUT A, B, C 
S = A + B + C 
PRINT S 
STOP 

2. OUTPUT OPERATIONS 
(i) PRINT Statement 
The PRINT statement is used to print data on the terminal. The general format of the PRINT statement is: 

PRINT expression-list 

where expression-list is a list of expressions separated by commas. 

For example, the following statement prints the values of the variables A, B, and C on the terminal: 

PRINT A, B, C 

(ii) FORMAT STATEMENT 
The FORMAT statement is used to specify the format of the data to be printed. The general format of the FORMAT statement is: 

FORMAT (format-specification) 

where format-specification is a list of format characters. The format characters specify the type of data to be printed and the number of digits to be printed. 

For example, the following FORMAT statement specifies that the data to be printed is in the form of three integers separated by spaces: 

FORMAT (3I5) 

(iii) EXECUTION 
When the PRINT statement is executed, the computer prints the data specified in the expression-list. The data is printed according to the format specified in the FORMAT statement.20
